## 📚 Unstructured Rules Data: TI10 RULEBOOK WEB-GOOD

##################################################

### RULE_SOURCE: TI10 RULEBOOK WEB-GOOD
--- SECTION_ID: Preamble/Introduction
--- CONTENT: ® In all of her time spent exploring the galaxy, she had never seen Teallian shook her head. “No, researcher. It’s not wasteful at all.” an ocean being drained. “What do you mean?” Hiari asked. The Aris Vex had made orbit an hour ago, and since then Hiari The Barony officer gave her a small, superior smile. “It’s Omar had not once left the corvette’s observation blister. Beneath arrogant, Doctor. Pure arrogance to demonstrate their power by her lay a gray planet covered in dust storms and foaming, black reshaping a planet to get what they want. And I approve.” seas. Nothing grew on its barren, ashen plains, and only the simplest plants struggled to survive in the mineral-laced waters. ————————— It was probably the least interesting world Hiari had seen, and Two weeks later, the shuttle soared across the expanse of the yet she had traveled all the way from the Jord Institute of History, exposed seabed. Through her cabin viewport, Hiari could see beyond the Creuss Gate, past the Torali Pulsar, and deep into rivers of sludge flowed through the wasteland, slowly filling the Shaleri space, to be here. drained abyssal trenches with mud. Already, dust storms were And she wasn’t the only one. starting to whip up the drying silt. “Dr. Omar.” On the horizon ahead, she could just make out the cliffs rising from the ocean floor. As the water receded, it had exposed a She started at the deep rumbling purr, then turned and smiled. vast undersea plateau, hundreds of kilometers across. Atop “Durruq. I am sorry I did not notice you.” the plateau were vast structures linked by pathways of smooth The Hacan envoy briefly closed his eyes and dipped his black stone that radiated out from a circular disc that lay in body in a friendly greeting. “I apologize for disturbing your the center of the plateau. Using the Aris Vex’s sensor suite, contemplations, but the rest of the observer team was about to Migun calculated that the disc was five kilometers across and dine. Will you join us?” unimaginably dense. “That it has not collapsed under its own weight suggests it may be some exotic material—perhaps not “In a minute,” Hiari said. “I want to watch a bit longer.” fully in our dimension,” he had burbled excitedly. Durruq nodded. “It is an impressive sight. I will join you for a He was incensed he could not study them in person, just as Hiari time, if you will permit me.” railed against being unable to explore the exposed structures She shifted to provide space at the blister, and the larger alien scattered across the ocean floor. But their hosts insisted, politely joined her, staring out across the ships that hung in space above but firmly, the observers remain in orbit. So they watched as the world. Creuss ships descended on the ruins. Months ago, Creuss researchers had discovered records buried Five days into the exploration, the Creuss explorers uncovered… in forgotten vaults on Mecatol Rex, decaying mag-plates that something. spoke of a world called Acheron, the gateway of Ixth. The Creuss The Aris Vex had been on the far side of Acheron when the ship’s dispatched a massive armada into this forgotten corner of the gravitic sensors registered a massive spike. Something more galaxy, hoping to be the first to find the fabled paradise world massive than the planet was stretching the fabric of space-time. and reap the attendant glories of its discovery. Before the rest By the time the corvette’s orbit brought it above the city again, of the Galactic Council could insist on a multi-species observer the disk had vanished, enveloped in a perfect sphere of infinite team to accompany the expedition, Creuss scouts were already darkness. A wormhole. A wormhole five kilometers in diameter, finding routes around the ravenous Singularity of Manon, and buried beneath a forgotten sea. into ancient nebulae that were unknown even to these enigmatic aliens. By the time Hiari had been whisked from her apartment The observation team had protested with one voice, threatening in New Moscow and brought aboard the Barony corvette, word to report to their respective governments and return with fleets had come that the expedition had found Acheron, and sensors should the Creuss continue to bar them from this discovery. had detected strange readings beneath the world’s largest ocean. The Creuss acquiesced. Less than a day later, a shuttle had rendezvoused with the Aris Vex. There was room enough for Now, a toroid the size of a space dock hung suspended between all twenty-five of the official observers, but only barely. Hiari the sculpted silver hulls of two Creuss dreadnoughts. Hiari had chosen a cramped seat next to Durruq, rather than bear watched as invisible grav-fields reached down to the ocean the company of the sanctimonious Brother Dormer of the Yin hundreds of kilometers below; siphoning off the sea in a or the unsettling presence of N’ssika of the Naalu Collective. writhing funnel of water a kilometer across. It rose up, out of But despite the packed and uncomfortable quarters, none of the the atmosphere, and through the toroid, erupting into an ever- observers had even considered staying behind. expanding cloud of shimmering ice that slowly wrapped around to envelop the planet. Now the edge of the plateau was drawing near. The shuttle banked around one of the towers rising out of the side of the cliffs. Hiari “How foolish.” This time, Hiari didn’t turn. She recognized the gulped. From orbit, she hadn’t realized just how imposing the burbling voice as belonging to Migun Thu, a researcher from the massive, black stone buildings would be. They reminded her of Universities of Jol-Nar. He maneuvered his environment suit into temples, designed to inspire awe…or dread. the observation room, followed by an austere blue-gray woman in a formal uniform. Commander Teallian Den Marchand the Elder Even as Hiari shook off the stray thought, Durruq growled in the was the captain of the Aris Vex and official observer for the Barony. back of his throat. “I do not like the look of this place.” Migun gestured a manipulator arm at the toroid. “Any sentient San Sinassa, the Creuss sent to mind the observers, turned from who can travel into space can venture underwater. Why waste the pilot’s seat. “We have found similar structures all across the so much energy to remove the entire ocean?” The aquatic alien seabed. Apparently, this is an entire lost civilization.” seemed personally offended by the whole affair. 2 “I’d like access to some of those other sites as well,” Hiari said. level of the ziggurat towered over them, at least one hundred “If I’m going to get a clearer picture of this culture—” meters high. Small Creuss ships huddled around the only visible entrance, an archway large enough to fly their shuttle through “I’m sorry,” Sinassa replied. “But some of our teams have come with room to spare. Creuss techs bustled about setting up under attack by unknown assailants as they explored the ruins. scanners and deploying drones, paying no attention to the party. Letting you venture on your own is too dangerous.” As soon as they stepped across the threshold and a cavernous The observers looked at the Creuss with surprise. The Rokha hallway beyond, Hiari felt a tingling sensation sweep across her Varish narrowed her green eyes, and her Naaz companion Cole skin. Durruq’s eyes narrowed. “There’s no dust in here.” climbed up on her shoulders for a better view. “Assailants? What assailants are these?” “Amazing,” Migun said. “That must be some sort of static field, and it’s still functioning!” “They’re unknown,” Sinassa said soothingly. “Once we have more information, we will certainly provide you with it. Ah, we Sinassa nodded. “Our advance teams report more impressive are approaching the gateway.” finds within. With your permission, I will take you to see them.” The shuttle had been flying up a ravine leading into the interior The team slowly made its way deeper into the heart of the of the plateau. Now it climbed, soaring over the lip to reveal structure. The passageways they followed eventually shrank, the massive curve of the wormhole. A black sphere ringed by but the vaulted ceilings still loomed far over the heads of the warped light. Still dozens of kilometers away, it filled the forward observers. As the natural light faded away, they realized that the viewports. The observers fell silent. interior was lit by a faint blue lambency—though no one could tell where the light came from. “You could fly a Murmanifique battleship through that,” Teallian finally whispered. Hiari began to see decorations worked into the walls and columns, sharp geometric shapes with gold inlay. At one point, “Can you...” Hiari said. “Fly through it, I mean?” she drifted away and pulled out her savant, taking scans of a The Creuss nodded, his posture conveying pride. “Our teams series of carvings until Sinassa politely insisted that she rejoin entered three hours ago. Prepare yourselves.” the group. The shuttle accelerated, flying toward the absolute darkness “I’m sure those bas-reliefs were of DNA helixes,” Hiari whispered of the surface. Hiari clenched her seat’s armrests as she felt to Durruq. “There even appeared to as if she was being wrenched in every direction at once. For a be genetic coding beneath, if I can moment, or perhaps an eternity of moments, she was blind and interpret their language.” deaf, smothered in complete nothingness. Then, she could see again. The shuttle arced out of the wormhole, and they were soaring over a city. A huge city, Hiari realized. The shuttle had enough height that she could see serried ranks of immense, cyclopean structures in all directions, stretching off to the horizon. Black stone, like on Acheron. And above that… The dim light of a smoldering red dwarf star could not obscure the glowing disk that stretched from one edge of the sky to the other. One of the observers gasped. “Is that…the galaxy?” “We believe so,” Sinassa said. “Our scientists are working to identify this world’s location, but our preliminary analysis places this at least fifty thousand light years from Acheron, nearly perpendicular to the galactic plane.” “…by the sacred depths.” Migun murmured. Hiari thought she knew exactly how he felt. The shuttle circled the center of the city before putting down in the courtyard of a construction that was immense even by the standards of the buildings around them. Hiari thought she could identify elements of the galactic-antiquity style in the massive ziggurat, but she had never seen anything like the fan of towering blades that adorned the summit...like a monstrous crown. Get control of yourself, Dr. Omar, she thought sharply. You know better than to attribute human emotions to alien cultures like a first-year student! But she couldn’t shake the ominous feeling as they disembarked. The courtyard was more black stone, perfectly fitted and partially covered by drifting dunes of dust. The lowest 3 The air grew colder the deeper they got. In approximately half had Commander Teallian, who was looking about with narrowed an hour, Hiari’s savant informed her they had descended over eyes. As Hiari searched for previously deciphered morphemes one hundred meters below ground level, and her breath puffed from the Vira-Pics site, she heard Durruq speaking to the Letnev out in white clouds. She was about to ask Sinassa how much officer. “Does this place disturb you too?” farther they were going when the passage suddenly opened. “It does,” Teallian muttered. “It’s just…in all the stories, Ixth is The observers found themselves standing on a balcony supposed to be a garden paradise; a promised land. Does this overlooking a bottomless well over a kilometer across. The really seem like a paradise to you?” balcony stretched around the circumference of the well, and Durruq growled quietly in response. thin bridges ran out in regular intervals to a column that hung suspended in the center like a mechanical stalactite. The column A few minutes later, the heavy tread of his environmental suit was covered in machinery, pipes, conduits, and inlaid circuits heralded Sinassa’s return. “Please, everyone. It would be wise if that spread out across the ceiling far above, then ran back down you would stay with the main group—” the sides of the well and vanished into the depths. “Just a moment.” Hiari looked up. “I think I can read this.” “As you can see,” Sinassa said, “this is clearly the heart of the Everyone—even Varish, Cole, and Migun—crowded around. structure, and where we have focused our efforts.” He gestured “Well, go on then,” Teallian said. “What does it say?” to a number of Creuss who had crossed the bridges and were now clustered around the column. “We have discovered what Hiari started to go through the words closest to the door. “Well, appear to be large stasis pods embedded in the column. If you this speaks of a sanctum…a refuge of royalty. This place, I think. would care to observe…” Then it references Ixth, which is this planet...And then here’s something about a mighty empire…one with dominion over He began to walk across the nearest bridge. Most of the group every star in Ixth’s sky. The Dominion of…” of observers trailed in his wake, talking quietly but excitedly amongst themselves. Hiari saw the Winnaran xenoarchaeologist She suddenly looked up, her face gray. “Sinassa. Tell your Toala Toaldar, a former colleague on several expeditions to the colleagues to leave that column at once.” Mirist Stars, recording the entire chamber with her own bulky “What are you talking about?” Migun demanded. savant. She started to follow, but Durruq laid a heavy paw on Hiari pointed at a set of letters. “It says… ‘the Dominion of the Hiari’s shoulder. “A moment, Dr. Omar.” Mahact, the Kings of the Galaxy.’” He gestured to the wall behind them. Hiari saw that, amongst A deafening crack echoed across the well, and the blue glow the conduits, writing had been carved into the walls. brightened. There seemed to be some sort of commotion near the “Before we delve too deeply, would it be possible column. Hiari could just make out figures backing away from a to decipher this?” space in the machinery that was sliding open. Inside it was dark, Hiari looked closer. “I think I might…” with tiny points of blue light. Like stars. She began searching through her A red flash lit the chamber, then another, and another. Hiari savant’s files. “Yes! This looks like a thought she could hear one of the other observers screaming. pre-Lazax dialect we found on the Then a billowing, hissing cloud of steam erupted from the ruins of Vira-Pics III.” column, hiding it from view. She began to scan and review “We need to leave,” Teallian said. “Sinassa?” the lettering. Varish and Cole, along with Migun, had also The Creuss warrior looked at her, then nodded. “Yes, I think so. I remained behind to study the will contact the rest of the advance team…” His voice trailed off. machinery on the walls. So Suddenly his suit began to spasm and shudder. Sinassa threw his head back and howled. Sparks of red began to leak from the joints of his suit, overwhelming the Creuss’ normal cerulean glow. The group began to back away as Sinassa suddenly relaxed, crimson light spilling from his armor. He studied the group for a long moment. Then he reached for his laser rifle. His arm sheared off at the shoulder in a shower of sparks. Durruq growled as he spun, bringing his collapsible shudder blade back into an upward swing that split Sinassa from waist to shoulder. The Creuss screamed, energy erupting from his suit as he pitched over the side of the balcony. The Hacan didn’t pause to watch his foe fall. He sprinted for the hallway leading back to the surface. “Run!” he ordered. Hiari and her remaining colleagues fled through the corridors to the surface. Screams still echoed down the passages behind them, and the glow in the air seemed to be brightening. Soon, glowing lines began to trace the carvings and decorations on the wall. The ziggurat was waking up. 4 As they ran, Hiari saw Durruq clutching his arm. “You’re venoms and a curative seal. By the time she’d finished, the white injured!” she gasped. had spread across Teallian’s shoulder and down her arm, and the Letnev was watching her own hand with horrified fascination. Durruq shook his head, and pulled back his hand. Blood oozed from the neat hole in his forearm. “Skin pocket,” he growled. “I don’t know what this is,” Hiari said. “It’s not responding to “Where I hid the blade.” any of the meds.” “Skin pockets? Hidden weapons?” Teallian’s fingernails all fell off at once. The skin beneath was smooth and fresh. She reached up, and pulled a clump of her The Hacan bared his teeth. “The Emirates felt it best—” he own hair free. As she did, her hand ran across her ear, which paused as they sprinted around a corner, blade ready “—to send was starting to shrink and shrivel. Teallian stared at the hair in an envoy with hidden talents.” her hand for a long moment. When she looked up at Hiari, her Hiari kept running, but she couldn’t stop watching Durruq out of eyes were hard. “This is some sort of gene-sorcery.” the corner of her eyes. She sucked in a deep, shuddering breath, then continued. “It’s They had just made it to the main hall when they were attacked. happening fast. Doctor Omar, listen to me. Get back to the Aris White, smooth-skinned humanoids sprinted from the shadows. Vex. My crew has prepared for the possibility that we would Their faces were completely featureless, no eyes, ears, nose, or discover something dangerous. Tell them ‘Quann.’ They will mouth. But they could sense the group’s presence all the same follow your instructions. Warn the Council.” and charged, thin needle-blades sprouting from their palms. Hiari nodded. “I will.” Durruq killed two with sweeping strokes, ducking under their Teallian turned to Durruq. She could barely keep her eyes open, grasping arms as he disemboweled them. Another leapt on the sockets seemed to be sealing shut. “Now. Your sword.” She Migun, only to have its needle snap harmlessly against the held out her arm. hard surface of the environment suit. A moment later, the Hylar activated some sort of defense field and fried the humanoid with ————————— a massive electric shock. The shuttle erupted from the wormhole on Acheron, soaring Hiari ducked out of the path of another humanoid, blocking its toward the fleet. The remaining members of the team gathered in stab with her savant and wishing desperately that she had some the cockpit. Nobody wanted to sit in the back. sort of weapon. Varish and Cole didn’t even stop. The tiny Naaz No hails greeted the shuttle. After a long moment, Hiari activated held on tight as the Rokha sprinted for the exit. the communicator. “This is the observation team, hailing the But despite their efforts, none of the team would have escaped Aris Vex. Come in, Aris Vex.” without Teallian. The commander drew her grazer sidearm and Another long pause, then a burst of static and the voice of calmly began firing. Each shot dropped one of the humanoids Lieutenant Drellixiar, the corvette’s first officer. “Observation into a pile of twitching limbs and smoking flesh. Instinctively, the team, this is Aris Vex. Commander Marchand, is that you?” rest of the group clustered around Teallian as they backed for the exit with Durruq keeping her flanks protected if any of the “No, this is Doctor Hiari Omar. I’m afraid the Commander is creatures got too close. dead.” Hiari glanced over her shoulder, toward the crew bay. “She said that the code is ‘Quann.’” They made it over the threshold and out into the courtyard just as the grazer overheated with a whistling scream. Teallian “Understood, Doctor. Stand by for rendezvous coordinates.” cursed and threw it at the nearest creature, then turned and Information flowed through the shuttle’s nav systems, and Varish ran. The Creuss who had been setting up the exploration base hissed. “What are you doing in a polar orbit?” camp had vanished. So had their ships. But the observers’ shuttle remained. Through the cockpit windows, Hiari could see Varish “The situation here has become complex in the past hour,” and Cole prepping the ship for takeoff. Drellixiar said. “We thought it best to keep a low profile.” Durruq and Migun sprinted up the boarding ramp, with Hiari “What do you mean, ‘complex?’” Durruq asked. right behind them. She turned to help Teallian aboard, only to “You should be able to see for yourself,” Drellixiar replied. see her gasp and stumble. One of the humanoids had closed and The shuttle was just breaking free from Acheron’s atmosphere lunged, driving the needle-blade into her shoulder. and entering the black void of space. Suddenly they could see the Without thinking, Hiari smashed the thing’s featureless face with Creuss fleet, in orbit over the wormhole. her savant. As it reeled back, she grabbed Teallian by the hand Red lights danced across the hulls of the Creuss warships. The and hauled her up the ramp, the hatch hissing shut behind them sculpted silver decorations now flickered with a smoldering, both. Then the shuttle leapt into the air, flying fast away from the crimson glow. The fleet sank into Acheron’s atmosphere even as courtyard. the shuttle flew higher. No one scanned or hailed the shuttle, or Migun grabbed the Letnev commander and helped her to a seemed to even notice their existence. bench, while Hiari helped peel off her uniform jacket. Instead, one by one, the Creuss ships descended toward the “How bad is it?” Teallian asked, grimacing. plateau and began to enter the gateway. “I’m not sure,” Hiari said. The wound was a single round puncture with little blood leaking out of it. However, the skin around the injury was starting to turn ashen white. She reached for the emergency med-box and sprayed the site with contra- 5 OVERVIEW INTEGRATING THIS EXPANSION Twilight Imperium: Prophecy of Kings introduces a wealth of additional content for the Twilight Imperium: Fourth Edition base game. Seven new factions enter the fray, including the Before combining the components of this expansion and the base infamous Mahact Gene-Sorcerers, former rulers of the galaxy. game, remove the following agenda cards from the base game, Leaders step to the forefront to provide their factions with their which are no longer used when playing with the expansion: exceptional skills. In the bloody theater of planetary combat, mechanized infantry raise the brutality to new heights. Among the stars, war spreads to famous planets around the galaxy, and ✦ Core Mining ✦ Research Team: Warfare the race for new territory reveals lost relics of immense power. ✦ Demilitarized Zone ✦ Senate Sanctuary EXPANSION IDENTIFIER ✦ Holy Planet of Ixth ✦ Shard of the Throne ✦ Representative Government ✦ Terraforming Initiative Each card and sheet in this expansion has the ✦ Research Team: Biotic ✦ The Crown of Emphidia Prophecy of Kings expansion icon to distinguish these components from the components in the ✦ Research Team: Cybernetic ✦ The Crown of Thalnos Twilight Imperium: Fourth Edition base game. ✦ Research Team: Propulsion The expansion system tiles are numbered 52–91. Then, combine this expansion’s components with the like THE LONG WAR components from the base game. Add the four mech units, eight When playing the Prophecy of Kings expansion, new avenues new technology cards, and one new promissory note that match to gaining victory points become available, and the ease of each base-game color to the other components of that type. Add scoring some objectives increases. Players who wish to play a the remaining cards to their respective decks, and shuffle the longer game may use the 14-space side of the victory point track. red-backed and blue-backed system tiles into their respective piles of base-game system tiles. Replace the “Diplomacy” and “Construction” strategy cards from the base game with the revised versions included with the expansion. Finally, add the seven new faction sheets to the stack of sheets from the base game. SENSOR MASTS EXHAUST VENTS LAUNCHER CLUSTER MOTIVE GYROS MASS MISSILE FEED PRIMARY DRIVES 6 }YBDNATS{ ////// SUTATS LANOITAREPO ZS THUNDERBOLT M2 COMPONENTS - - - - - COST COMBATMOVECAPACITY CAPACITY 7 Faction Sheets 3 5 3 IXTH 5 IXTHGo m ro T A g o n h o ud l e ys nr g o y e t r ,a nv e d i i atd ne ht e sa e n n da Pe c nw e cl d a r o o ot mr ef p l ac do o iu l v o lt i i e Is f lm i nb o z p l a fsa e eA t c i a r o i k ios an v ro . i o D s fl lo c t a h a lv e n a ic. 40 System and Hyperlane Tiles 40 Planet Cards proT dh uo tcu u eg rdn h r mt e p s h u g u i l e n o b a n o t Y f - c r ii o o std o e y it d o r e a u o c 1 n n o o e u m sd f m m r wt a m F a h 1 e re e y e d a c r A c n ,ew h g y o t t eh a B a s m s f ne r r i p o . n o o m l R e o n u L m 1 n cg o I t a O h d c h C d y l o l t i o y i 1 C o s t m A u y t p A r r m T t l a o a d L O o n e d e R i t t . y S , stA ac a pro, p o n n T s l w cu d i ah e tp ce ne s n a p hr u h e t n l p g u t 1 r lr a t h , a a r lg r u o e a vo a p t t g h s e e a n o e n t t r l A e y d t oh a i i k ie m t t s . C B e t c t me .s e s t t . s n h O e T a r e oe n c o o e a n i n I M mt r t s a u O n , t o de h e h r g t B n c r n N s a d e at g t h o a A c o C h h n c. i : t a r f d te R n ha h a C o d t O s y M e D t - t t m a. h eme o l s S M e p ie t n r N o t us e ie g v r c g l p E o T d r an o a e a h e V l N . s l n ud t ay t to E ne s T o e e n n b E j p d a ; a l 1 L t e d i e a d a ct R R n a t s L n e r e e dn y n o ts T A x d h t t np r E i at R -ln o a to R y n et oogggg nn iiiirrrrnnnnaaaa tt ttttff vvvvhhtt rroooo WW hh iiii oo ee tttttttt ee mm yyyy ii hhhh bb tt pp rrrr mmm eeee rr hh tt iiiiii sss rr ffff hh dd wwww aa oo tttt cc yyy ooo ee gg.... bb ttt rrrr oo sss dd rrr AAAA ee iiii ooo AAA cc ee ttt tttt eee uu nn ..dddd rrhhhh eee kkk CCC ww ll HH uu tt mmmm ll ooo iiii mmm eee aa nnnnii TTT oooo tt PPP ss fff nnn iiii hh gggg ii pp ee uu EEE III rrrr nn yyy uu aaaa OOO ttt rr RRR eell mmmm iii hhh dd ss ooo dd llll XXX nnn aa ff NNN uu DDDDaaaa ,, aaa OOO rr uuu nn oo PPP tt aaa eell eeee ::: eeee ttt dd ll hh rrr rr ttyy llll nnn LLLL EE BBB ccc uu ssss ee ,, LLL aa sss ii oooo tttt xx ss ooo ttrr hhh aaa ccpp rrrruuuuhh OOO EEE nn pp oooocc nnn aa rr nnn iii iiiiii.. ee ppp oo ssssmmmm ss ll dd ttt ooo RRR oo ll bb pppp aaa ee tt sss jj mmm ii oooo rr ee aaaa rr ... aa iii mm AAA ee aa nnn ffffcccc ss cc aaa tt ee tttteeee hh sss TTT ee aa eehhhh lll dddd oodd yyy nn 111 eeee III ff tt rr OOO tt ttt ooo oo hhh tt rrr nn NNN oo aaa tt ttt aa ii ee rr to fl A 1 k e g e e c a r n t o e r i p e m n t i t F n h o 2 t o s o u m f e t o o t c r : r i h : l o a r n r E E c a e n m c s a e n a i o d c r t m c m d h h m r t h e O o o C e r a p m i e p n k s n n l P t L D e a e l f t d a u a o y s n n A t I r y E . e r t o n R d e c o f r r k N s e R r E k o r s e m t e e r C h m h n e D A m n e e T a s m s e t n o t T E I t h o t f V t o v r e s I S v a e o . E O t i e n r s m h T s d e N i I r N S E VVVVVVIIIIIICCCCCC tt TTTTTT hh CC OOOOOO aa oo RRRRRR nn 1 nn YYYYYY nn ee tt PPPPPP ee rr aa oo ii OOOOOO B cc gg ll S IIIIII hh hh NNNNNN mm O T bb oo TTTTTT A oo U ff oo T rr 22 rr U ee N P ss S oo .. pp D U ff ll P aa yy A S H nn oo A ee R uu H S tt rr ss I E E S 74 Exploration Cards 10 Relic Cards 20 Action Cards 13 Agenda Cards 40 Objective Cards (20 Cultural, 20 Industrial, 20 Hazardous, and 14 Frontier) N T a h g a f e a r z A n a i - n C R g , o r T m 1 e k I r t O e h e u B n a N l r i t n c : p s L . P t l F o A a h u f y i O r s t C e g h r c e R . K e a 2 r s G d a M o m t E f o y e A R o t h t u R y Y e r p K r e e E t li o c T T u h n i i s t s u a A A n R i s E t h G d R i E p o N I e w E T s i n M t h ' S t E c c C E a o H p u N a n T c t i a I ty N g a c E a in n L s t t r t a h n e s p to o t r a t l . number of D c e t A Y o t h v h s o A h n e a y a R u a f t n s t v t r t r t K e e d o e i t s f r o l o 1 m h y y p E k i n o o o p l e t o a N r u u h s n n t m a c . d p E e c t a o o e o t n R c s r r n n o e f i r t G o o n n e a s r t t t i h t m Y a r n h h i e i p a n a o a a T s v t s t t t A e h s i i a a n n y e u c P f s t r t t r n o t h i o p e c i a t a n l m a s a t d t l y i o s . j a e e a y r c r r s c t s t t e i ’ o e o n u m k n t n e s , i i n n y t e s , s x a , i t p f e y l m o o r s u e ✦ SUSTAIN DAMAGE 2 6 COST COMBAT 24 Promissory Note Cards 24 Mech Unit Cards 128 Technology Cards 7 EDARGPU EDARGPU EDARGPU EDARGPU EDARGPU EDARGPU ✦ SUSTAIN DAMAGE 1 COST COMBATMOVECAPACITY WAR SUN CRUISER I Yyoouu ocawnnn iotst purnoitd uupceg rtahdise u tnecith unnolleosgs y . 2 7 2 COST COMBATMOVE DREADNOUGHT I DESTROYER I PDS I 4✦ SUSTAIN D5AMAGE ✦ BO1MBARDMEN1T 5 ✦1 ANTI-FIGH9TER BARRAG2E 9 (X2) COST COMBATMOVECAPACITY COST COMBATMOVE ✦ PLANETARY SHIELD ✦ SPACE CANNON 6 CARRIER I FIGHTER I SPACE DOCK I mUa T g h po a i srti e on u s tn 3h t i fi t y a’ go sn uh Pt rthR e s eO rh s Dr i e pi U ns s Co ’t T c uh I a rO isc p N esa y v c vsi aa tt ll ye uu .m ee iod sf o e t qhn uiosa t p l c tloao un 2 ne tt . 3 9 1 4 9 - COST COMBATMOVECAPACITY COST COMBATMOVE COST COMBAT ✦ PRODUCTION X EDARGPU EDARGPU EDARGPU 1 1 SEITIDOMMOC Dc+o2 um r t i o AM mn g t AR ah Hcne VAod r Cm e I t TC os b uk FO a le Lt tn A s N a G o gis S f a R nt Hin ho EIPs its t X i una n n yi oo t’us p rp c oflo menee btn apt t o w roo hll,l o sas .pep ly THE MAHACT GENE-SORCERERS 8 5 3 —A“iKroN SEhELir.” A ur - - - - E I H M Wty1ic Wyp Dn“ D U n A o a o o o l P u o I aB h h k n l y u u C tl r f y E ee i ei on Ri r r l a T e t n n e n . R uo fl fl h n Ir Og S rt a f ’ y I e e a c s r A t n o fl s b et e e o h c e o ” t t e u e p m o e t p e t p p l m u r w r a h t r e o o y pp y o e i m pd oo o n , e l r m oi a ul l p r a s , p a y i o ’ r i t u s ny f s l e r c l a o o r d i s t i r o i t g b y o o p u n s e m d e e u k r p c r c cr y , oe tr y bo a a’ e i e s ne o f nn na n da ss c i u o t n e t s. ; ou , n r t n o eo i p m e s o s “ t t t e A y l s ’th u as m g. o l t a c e n li r h u i a v e le r a l r e r o e n ie n p 1 n fl c da a yc l f k c ea b d oe o t o e ye ” oi u yr ld m et c i p k c t t r . e l e r y m h isom m o n ’ e n o t a m e i iot if n r t s a n i k t d b s i ih t en n s s u a n o t i t s r n y COST COMBATMOVECAPACITY CAPACITY 3 A1co fct moemr m CM tm AR o hH d ios IA i M dt uC iie nt TS ys i tI t N o O i o sF r a NAdc o Ne t rnsTL a tv Rr d E eoY ery G tg e 1 I o d O oo , gfd N ya .oi N nu A r IRE I 8 EDARGPU EDARGPU EDARGPU EDARGPU EDARGPU EDARGPU 8 1 COST COMBATMOVECAPACITY WAR SUN Yyoouu ocawnnn iotst purnoitd uupceg rtahdise u tnecith unnolleosgs y . 2 7 2 COST COMBATMOVE DREADNOUGHT I DESTROYER I 4 5 1 1 ✦1 ANTI-FIGH9TER BARRAG2E 9 (X2) COST COMBATMOVECAPACITY COST COMBATMOVE CARRIER I FIGHTER I INFANTRY I SPACE DOCK I mUa T g h po a i srti e on u s tn 3h t i fi t y a’ go sn uh Pt rthR e s eO rh s Dr i e pi U ns s Co ’t T c uh I a rO isc p N esa y v c vsi aa tt ll ye uu .m ee iod sf o e t qhn uiosa t p l c tloao un 2 ne tt . 3 9 1 4 9 - 8 COST COMBATMOVECAPACITY COST COMBATMOVE COST COMBAT ✦ PRODUCTION X EDARGPU EDARGPU 1 1 SEITIDOMMOC UOLU FLRAAGSNHIOPS 7 3 SULA CTRUUISRENR ENGINE I 1 HULE PLD-STITAN I ✦ SUSTAIN DAMAGE ✦ BOMBARDMENT 5 7 2 COMBAT EDARGPU ✦ cy Doo E S nu P U t L ma S Oian T Y yA s: I A ry Neof p t D ue lA ra r M sc yheA o itG uphE sa a ac tn t P idv D a aS tte w l ea it as hsy ts t h1te ios m fu yt n hoitua . tr PDS, THE TI ✦✦ Tg T hr oPS isuLP A un A A N nd CE i E tfT o C i A sr A cR N t N er Y e. N SIa O tt H N ce IaE d S 6 nL a Dnso bt ob✦✦ teh SP O ta RUra OS snt DT rsA u U pI c C F Not T ru DI t O reA e N dM a . 1A n G d U E a L CAttAAmer oh ea fO fW o i ka t t cn e e e A t rhf A r er np o L o y “ yK ,l o p r E a o f T y o c E f e n S ou te h uy r h Neu m — e C m e oa t o x .m E u T e c s aP p i tr ne N a tn i l y s v t a oy t C er s la o r n e o . n p Ee t ke s l e t l u e aa p s t a c s n e e h pe i s e rs ua l a y o k wt sn n os r s t i t e a k m t h o e t he e m mm ot n1 h O v s ee t ae P, tr h b t y he D 1 a s h o i e S e t s n a u r l m c s f g e v o rm en e o pm n po r am i t r e o ya s e r r l y i . r e ” n e t eo oe spu pk 1lr ee a o nr c r e o nto A L T E W E E X G O A 1 2 3 A••C••H•• P• E• A•D• I•D• •• R P E o x ) ) ) u o CC MC MP Ag Dd T Tu F C SFM R t g e e e D M Ln N t p F S R l l h h t r o m e n a aa a a r e p s iii iii r a O M i i u u a E p )ii )ii g a i o e al p p S e t D c m nn n i i r wI )i )i n i l r c o l s s R R r ) ) r ms s N t u d e o w R c R k t a s s sl V V H t h o t A t t r e i bi b o R R o e e e f t c a r y d s c n O e t o o A S w w i a y r r g O b b a a r e e v v e e b s n h A e y o a t f g n t t e P m L T e r e e e e s s h h e u a i d c e e pL g n e s m d i d a d l P o o O d a a H a I t s e e r i h l E u u x u e d O m t A l ea l l l l r m n n a P o a c a h A G y v v c n a n n r d cr A Ag r N t o Ngl n n m r a e e a d l l s fi e t a a S Y c t p e e f g g o o n e r c e h u a a E rt n a t r O O w a d d l n T E e e c ce oc d t u t s c a i s n e X- r p s k k h u u d n n t i O - h m t ; y ri v o o t t p s e e e U b n s e t t a d d c u e h e i n K l c c a e d d d s a r e e t l u n a a r s Sl o o e e o h E r n ’ “ y t d s s i t t t t u - d m m m A h t e to N o o n e o g s r h s t e e l e e o i a o e e o e l S i u u u a e d n i t xp i m t d v a r n s s s s t e t p pl l e n e e e h e a p f a e w t l l u o d c o o e n a r n li i i a o at s t t e p r r n e f d g s s s pc a b y ” r r o t e e a m t o l a a a e n i u o r a t i l m m b b b r o m i o n c r h c t s n i i i e t y e i a e t l l l o t e t i o i i n r t s t t a l hb d k e y y y t eo e s s n x 2 Revised 8 Leader Sheets Strategy Cards 118 Plastic Base Game Units 32 Plastic Mech Units (59 Units in 2 Colors) (4 Units in 8 Colors) U L N E IT T Y A TH N R I O O UG S H P PE H A A CE L U E NI T TY A T N HR I O O UG S H P P H EA A C m La E m E en v t y t i h e d i n a sg e n p t nw h o f t o i t u i. h d ya r Tl e e l e v h t s p , soe r m at o " w o so I n s t u aa e e egdg lr m n lr l i hs e oo t n o i s A fw g at t h t I r l ssh b sseo pt te e o m r f r o n u r os m, re d ct n e I a c t y fg u u .m r s o s n r e ar .ea ll tnI ef h y o . wd a " rg m s i t ar s h ay o h l w l A a n p s r u r n C e h o l e p a d i T i n p n p y t I - l c f e O o a fi w o h r c g N 2 r o i e m c h t : o m d h e t E a s m e s x o y o e r h h n r e r a s e i a e n e p h n u p t t . i f y h s p s l r a o t p a t ; c h n m t t l e a h h a t y i a t t t h s e h h t c e c r a e o ’ a s t i s r r t d s 74 Leader Cards 1 Mirage Planet 1 Destroyed Planet 6 Dimensional 4 Gamma Wormhole Token Token Tear Tokens (3 Cabal Tokens (3 Generic and 3 Nekro Virus) and 1 Creuss) 20 Frontier 119 Control 112 Command 42 Trade Good and Tokens Tokens Tokens Commodity Tokens (Double-Sided) TNEGA REDNAMMOC OREH HCEM ECNEREFER KCIUQ A L T E W E E X G O A 1 2 3 A••C••H•• P• E• A•D• I•D• •• R P E o x ) ) ) u o CC MC MP Ag Dd T Tu F C SFM R t g e e e D M Ln N t p F S R l l h h t r o m e n a aa a a r e p s iii iii r a O M i i u u a E p )ii )ii g a i o e al p p S e t D c m nn n i i r wI )i )i n i l r c o l s s R R r ) ) r ms s N t u d e o w R c R k t a s s sl V V H t h o t A t t r e i bi b o R R o e e e f t c a r y d s c n O e t o o A S w w i a y r r g O b b a a r e e v v e e b s n h A e y o a t f g n t t e P m L T e r e e e e s s h h e u a i d c e e pL g n e s m d i d a d l P o o O d a a H a I t s e e r i h l E u u x u e d O m t A l ea l l l l r m n n a P o a c a h A G y v v c n a n n r d cr A Ag r N t o Ngl n n m r a e e a d l l s fi e t a a S Y c t p e e f g g o o n e r c e h u a a E rt n a t r O O w a d d l n T E e e c ce co d t u t s c a i s n e X- r p s k k h u u d n n t i O - h m t ; y ri v o o t t p s e e e U b n e s t t a d d c u e h e i n K l c c a e d d d s a r e e t l u n a a r s Sl o o e e o h E r n ’ “ y t d s s i t t t t u - d m m m A h t e to N o o n e o g s r h s t e e l e e o i a o e e o e l S i u u u a e d n i t xp i m t d v a r n s s s s t e t p pl l e n e e e h e a p f a e w t l l u o d c o o e n a r n li i i a o at s t t e p r n r e f d g s s s pc a b y ” r r o t e e a m t o l a a a e n i u o r a t i l m m b b b r o m i o n c r h c t s n i i i e t y e i a e t l l l o t e t i o i i n r t s t t a l hb d k e y y y t eo e s s n x QUICK REFERENCE AGENT COMMANDER HERO MECH TACTIC FLEET 2 Command Sheets TRADE GOODS STRATEGY T T S A Y H N T ✦✦✦ P 12 3 4 5 12345678 A•N••• S•G• E A O u )) ) ) ) )))))))) S SS+D S oU s r e E E T STC M a AM S I P SRDRGRRR t T p h hh h f b 1 ii iiiiv iiiiv n e n a S a e t U )i )iiv )iiv o v p c r e e eee Ac e i ii i A ) ) ) )i )i a r r u f c i v c o rA o S p pp p M A ) B ) ) ) o i m a t e a v t m apt a S r R E S A C i o thp t l C a O v p A G M S i n u d s ss s o n r w n a L t n e y d i c i a s v p e o o i n s p ps e e c e T o p a r S d u e s m o a F rt C CI C I t d P yi a a it a a R v m a n n n m E o r g o l a i s A R v c o h I a Ol c r v a a a t i - n e k Cc e F C l H i C i b e o e e b e n U i u F c i A e S P t n i c a f S g N m n n n e e r c e d b o i A o p i A a t a s e a u S i l e e A t m n u tn C o C n C n n n n g i I e n j m A i c C r t C ri r h s l n n n R + d M e L ob C i o n t S o d t do o o b d h a T t o h t H a c o i t c e c 1 n b i l a m G s m t N p s t t t t m u C I v o E A to i n em t d i e A C e O c n a i t M s M M M e i r l o C e v n n o b m C g v i a e s rR c o o t n O b d s N i b m a n o a e o y o o o t n n T Be n u t o M a a r u b i t n s S r o v v v v t g o t b I a d t n C n n t i l O j r Do r en e e e b r a n e a O s d a e T d R o D r v N u i t c T T T a r a R h a o l e ff F e T d e t h h h t n tg e r l o o i e e R s f s l o S v r r r ds e s e n r k o o o e T e e u u cn e R s o u u u st e g l e s n t u o k g g g s t h e s o ol l e h h h t l osf n s 1 o o r 1 s 1 t r r o – O d I I 3 n n ui.e t t t o o ; ECNEREFER KCIUQ TACTIC FLEET SDOOG EDART T T S A Y H N T ✦✦✦ P 12 3 4 5 12345678 A•N••• S•G• E A O u )) ) ) ) )))))))) S SS+D S oU s r e E E T STC M a AM S I P SRDRGRRR t T p h hh h f b 1 ii iiiiv iiiiv n e n a S a e t U )i )iiv )iiv o v p c r e e eee Ac e i ii i A ) ) ) )i )i a r r u f c i v c o rA o S p pp p M A ) B ) ) ) o i m a t e a v t m apt a S r R E S A C i o thp t l C a O v p A G M S i n u d s ss s o n r w n a L t n e y d i c i a s v p e o o i n s p ps e e c e T o p a r S d u e s m o a F rt C CI C I t d P yi a a it a a R v m a n n n m E o r g o l a i s A R v c o h I a Ol c r v a a a t i - n e k Cc e F C l H i C i b e o e e b e n U i u F c i A e S P t n i c a f S g N m n n n e e r c e d b o i A o p i A a t a s e a u S i l e e A t m n u tn C o C n C n n n n g i I e n j m A i c C r t C ri r h s l n n n R + d M e L ob C i o n t S o d t do o o b d h a T t o h t H a c o i t c e c 1 n b i l a m G s m t N p s t t t t m u C I v o E A to i n em t d i e A C e O c n a i t M s M M M e i r l o C e v n n o b m C g v i a e s rR c o o t n O b d s N i b m a n o a e o y o o o t n n T Be n u t o M a a r u b i t n s S r o v v v v t g o t b I a d t n C n n t i l O j r Do r en e e e b r a n e a O s d a e T d R o D r v N u i t c T T T a r a R h a o l e ff F e T d e t h h h t n tg e r l o o i e e R s f s l o S v r r r ds e s e n r k o o o e T e e u u cn e R s o u u u st e g l e s n t u o k g g g s t h e s o ol l e h h h t l osf n s 1 o o r 1 s 1 t r r o – O d I I 3 n n ui.e t t t o o ; STRATEGY QUICK REFERENCE 4 2 IMP LE E G R EN I D A A L R Y A — R HO M PE S 'S V EN A D U LT d a y t c Y r n u o a a o y r u r w u n d r p m 1 t r l a a o e t a a n i p n t c y e h l f t t a o e i e o c y x r e n e c o h n e u a 1 c m d a u c m r s o e o d t e n f n . t c t y t h s h r o i o o s u f l r n r o o r m sau rlefBag uci r oeie,n td 'sh dew e looe r pstt h b v e oan fu e wlta est a hcpo t onh nteas i.n HOPE'S END 4 Legendary Planet Ability Cards 13 Attachment Tokens 1 Ion Storm (6 Generic, 4 Tech, Token (Double-Sided) 1 DMZ, and 2 Titan) 5 Ul Sleeper 71 Infantry 71 Fighter Tokens Tokens Tokens SETUP To set up a game of Twilight Imperium with the Prophecy of Kings expansion, follow the Complete Setup rules found in the base game’s rules reference with the following additions: ✦ STEP 3—GATHER FACTION COMPONENTS: In addition to their faction components from the base game, each player takes their faction’s mech unit card and their three leader cards. The factions listed below take additional components: ✧ The Ghosts of Creuss: 1 Creuss Gamma Wormhole Token ✧ The Vuil’raith Cabal: 3 Dimensional Tear Tokens ✧ The Nekro Virus: 3 Dimensional Tear Tokens ✧ The Titans of Ul: 5 Ul Sleeper Tokens Additional Faction Components for the Ghosts of Creuss ✧ The Embers of Muaat: 1 Muaat Supernova Tile ✦ STEP 4—CHOOSE COLOR: Each player takes all of their color’s components, which now include: • 4 mech units • 1 new promissory note AG1 2 3 E) ) ) NF S R iii iii )ii )ii i e e D )i )i rR R ) ) c a s V V A R R o e e t d o o e e v v n A y t t P e e s s d e e g P o o a a H e A l l l l l a A v v nA Ag n e e dS e g g e a O O n E e e ts u u d n n t t a d d c c a a o o m m e e • 8 new technology cards • 1 leader sheet LEAA•• C•• o CC MC gD m aa a e u E nn n n ms R t t bi b n S ab e e t ne ee s d r hu x e a a h n c r r a l t eo uw dc s k it v te e h ia d d o “ t tA to o h l l u u e ia rs s n e e p c li i at te s s y ” a a e n b b r o si it l le i i t t y y H•• MP e o ruo wste rbfeu lu onnloccek-peedr t-og aumsee i atsb ailbitiylity Each player slides the edge of their leader sheet under their TEP• R uAg Mr a pg m IN ue er O g a L en O dd G c rae Y rtdu risn reedm too vtehde fgraomme t hbeo x faction sheet. Then, from top slot to bottom slot, they place E• xDd p eral c owk r e t ah acat rmd afrtochme st hthe ee xpplalonreatt oiorn to ken A• Ttthaicsh card attaches to a planet card their agent, commander, and hero leader cards and their mech D• Tu ehn pii lst o fay rboimlit ya cpalany beer’ su rseeidn ftoor pcelamcee nat s unit card on the leader sheet. All leaders are placed showing EXI• Po F Lnl O i pSRtso A wrmT h I e O n N sh T ip O s K u E s N e S its wormholes D• Ceastrrdo iyse pdu Prglaende;t cannot land units the side that has the slot icon in the upper-right corner. WO•• SFM R ltM ia apl rsl Ht i s cw O e gh L i a se Em nc o N mfin E ra ts X- rto o U un lln Sl e yidt s eidnete ursp or ✦ STEP 6—CREATE GAME BOARD: Place the wormhole nexus in the common play area so the side that shows only the gamma wormhole is faceup. Then, place the 3 gamma wormhole tokens next to the wormhole nexus. 0 3 If playing with five, seven, or eight players, see the next page for specifics about creating the game board for that number of players. The Wormhole Nexus ✦ STEP 7—PLACE CUSTODIANS TOKEN: Place one frontier token on each non-home system that has no planets. Return the remaining frontier tokens to the game box. Place all attachment tokens near the game board. ✦ STEP 8—SHUFFLE COMMON DECKS: Shuffle the relic deck and each exploration deck separately and place them in the common play area. Relic Cultural Hazardous Industrial Frontier 8 TNEGA REDNAMMOC OREH HCEM ECNEREFER KCIUQ EMISSARY TAIVRA THE AZURE WHISPER After any player activates a system that contains a non-delta wormhole: You may exhaust this card; if you do, that system is adjacent to all other systems SAI SEthRatA coVnUtaSin wormholes GATEWARdDuEriNng this tactical action. UNLOCK: Have units in 3 systems that contain alpha or beta wormholes. R SH I A F L T ER W I G soaAu U "fr We A L dt R hyoK t e D o rme n Ef Is a A yy p Rioo N na uu .s rI s l M s e u hu an eg viE r vg e e e e I t l rsi h As gt ee hy ,N f toya luy om . " ud i l oeian n rto etr UNLOCK: Have 3 scored objectives. ctorbum" oe T u m— h n ea db nC sud r ot e o fe u snfs p ws oa u ho cg ar e mh v ? e tP h o u r o e n wle p s a o utre s r pcp te ht a rhns oe so u e lvs od e! g " r yy, EMISSARY TAIVRA THE AZURE WHISPER Aan o fst nyes- r dt ea emn lt y a t p hw laa oty rce mor nh ato cat leiinv :sa tae s Yiatd f h o d u y a u j r oati n mucce g o da n nt yot ht , e at i to s x i h n h t aa aw a lt c l u s ot o sy irc t ts mh a tt e l eh h a rmi o s c s l t y c e i i ss a os t r n e d . m ; s EMISSARY TAIVRA SAI SERAVUS THE AZURE WHISPER GATEWARDEN al U3p N hsya Ls O oteC r mK be :s H ttaha w vaeto cu rom nni h ttsao ii lnn e s . A a f s t y e s r t e a m ny t p h l a a t y T c e oo r p n a t c Sa t il i n v os a t t aI e c s o n soau "fr We dthyot eo rme nf s a yy pioo na uu .s rI s l s e u hu an eg vi r vg e e e e t l rsi hs gt ee hy ,f toya luy om . " ud i l oeian n rto etr non-delta wormh(Aolgee:nt) R SH I A F L T ER W I G A UA L R K D E IA R N MEIAN You may exhaust this card; UNLOCoKb:j eHcatvivee 3s .scored if you do, that system is ctorbum" oe T u m— h n ea db nC sud r ot e o fe u snfs p ws oa u ho cg ar e mh v ? e tP h o u r o e n wle p s a o utre s r pcp te ht a rhns oe so u e lvs od e! g " r yy, adjacent to all other systems that contain wormholes during this tactical action. Frontier Tokens GAME BOARD SETUP HYPERLANE SETUP When playing with five, seven, or eight players, the “Create Game Board” step of setup is modified as described below. For the game board setups described on this page, hyperlane tiles are always set up in the formation Five-Player Setup shown below using hyperlane tiles 83A, 84A, 85A, During the “Deal System Tiles” substep, each player is dealt 86A, 87A, and 88A. The rules for hyperlanes are three blue tiles and two red tiles. Before the “Place System described on page 11. Tiles” substep, the players place the hyperlane tiles exactly as shown in the “Game Board Setup” diagram. Seven-Player Setup During the “Deal System Tiles” substep, each player is dealt 85A four blue tiles and two red tiles. Before the “Place System Tiles” substep, the players place the hyperlane tiles exactly as shown in the “Game Board Setup” diagram. 87A 88A Then, before placing system tiles, the speaker draws five tiles—two red and three blue—from the unused tiles and places them one at time in an order of their choice so they are faceup, adjacent to Mecatol Rex following normal rules for placing tiles. Eight-Player Setup 84A 83A During the “Deal System Tiles” substep, each player is dealt four blue tiles and two red tiles. 86A Then, before placing system tiles, the speaker draws four tiles—two red and two blue—from the unused tiles and places them one at time in an order of their choice so they are faceup, adjacent to Mecatol Rex following normal rules for placing tiles. GAME BOARD SETUP FOR 5, 7, OR 8 PLAYERS Five-Player SetuP Seven-Player SetuP eight-Player SetuP Mecatol rex ring 1 ring 3 hyPerlane hoMe SySteM ring 2 ring 4 9 RULES CAPTURE Some abilities instruct a player to capture a unit. While a unit This section describes the components and mechanics introduced is captured, it is placed on the capturing player’s faction sheet in this expansion. until it is returned. The rules for capturing and returning units vary depending on the type of unit that is captured. ADDITIONAL PLAYERS If at least one of a player’s space docks is being blockaded, they This expansion adds components to enable seven-player and cannot capture units from the player who is blockading them. eight-player games. There are no additional rules for playing Non-Fighter Ships and Mechs with this number of players aside from the changes to game board setup on page 9. If a player captures a non-fighter ship or mech, they place it on their faction sheet. When such a unit is returned, it is placed in LEADERS the reinforcements of the player who it was captured from. A captured non-fighter ship or mech can be returned, as follows: Each faction has three leaders with unique abilities that are resolved ✦ If the player who captured the unit agrees to return it as part by following their instructions. There are three types of leaders: of a transaction. ✦ AGENT: Each agent ability exhausts that leader. Agents ✦ If an ability allows a player to return a captured ship, are readied along with all other exhausted cards during the typically as a cost for an effect. “Ready Cards” step. ✦ If the player whose unit was captured blockades a space dock ✦ COMMANDER: Each commander has a passive ability. This of the player who captured the unit. ability can be shared with another faction by trading the “Alliance” promissory card. Fighters and Ground Forces ✦ HERO: Each hero has an exceptionally powerful, once-per- If a player captures a fighter or ground force, it is placed in its game ability. reinforcements instead of on the capturing player’s faction sheet. Then, the capturing player places a fighter or ground force token Leaders are placed on tSheAirI cSorEreRspAoVnUdiSng leader from the supply on their faction sheet instead. Captured fighters slots during setup. All lGeaATdEeWrsA mRDuEsNt be placed and ground forces do not belong to any player color. As such, showing the side that has the slot icon in the they cannot be returned as part of a transaction and they are not upper-right corner. UNLOCK: Have u C n o i m ts m in a nder returned because of a blockade. They remain on the capturing 3 systems that co S n l t o a t i n Ic on player’s faction sheet until an ability returns them. When Agent abilities are available from the baelpghian nori nbge ta wormholes. returned, they are placed in the supply. of the game, but commander and hero abilities begin the game locked. Each commander and hero ca"rWdh ehna yso ua legaovea lth, es fuacmhil iaars LEGENDARY PLANETS “Have 3 scored objectives.” When thesa gfeotya olf oyonu ra u nleivaedrsee,r y ocua erndt eirs our domain. I suggest you do not 65 fulfilled, the player flips the card and the atrbesipliatsys hoenre tlihghet lrye." vealed Four of the planets in this expansion are legendary planets, side is now unlocked and available for the player to use. which are indicated by the legendary icon. MECH UNITS Legendary Icon on Primor 2 Mech units are highly specialized faction-specific 1 PRIMOR ground forces. When a player takes control of a legendary planet, they also Each player starts with their mech unit card in play. place its legendary planet ability card in their play area. Each Mechs are produced like other units and are available from the legendary planet ability card has a unique ability that can be beginning of the game. used at the end of that player’s turn. If a player gains control of Mechs are a type of ground force. They can be transported and an exhausted legendary planet ability card, it remains exhausted. can participate in ground combat. Each faction’s mechs have the stats and abilities shown on their mech unit card. THE ATRAMENT LEGENDARY—PRIMOR Some mech unit cards have a “Deploy” ability. Deploy abilities 2 You may exhaust this card provide an alternative way to place units on the game board. 1 PRIMOR a p y a o t n la u t y c h r p e e r l u e a e i p n n n e d t fo t o o r y 2 c f o e y i u n m o f c u a e o r n n n t t t t u r s r y r o o n f l n . r t o o m These abilities can only be resolved to place a unit that is in a A clade of assassin-scholars has player’s reinforcements, and each deploy ability can be resolved W La a p r r i g t s c e d h t u e e e d m t b p o a e v t r a t a l l e t u e s a d w b u o le r r i l o n d s g . m S th i i t u e e m T o w f d s i e l e i p g v o e h s r t i a t l s watch it e s d p o o v p e u r l a P c r e im 's o su r, r p v l i e v d a g l. e d to and a well-educated populace. only once per timing window. Primor’s Planet Card and Legendary Planet Ability Card 10 2 LISIS EXPLORAT2ION PURGE When a player takes control of a planet that is not already If an ability instructs a player to purge a component, that controlled by another player, they explore that planet. To component is removed from the game and returned to the box. explore, the player draws a card from the top of the exploration deck that matches that planet’s type and resolves the card’s WORMHOLE NEXUS effect. Then7,2 the card is discarded unless it is a relic fragment or has an “Attach” ability, which are described on the next page. The wormhole nexus is a unique region of the galaxy where Planets that do not have a type cannot be explored. numerous wormholes converge. It is a two-sided system tile— the inactive side displays only a gamma wormhole, and the active side displays three wormholes. The nexus is treated as part of the game board, and it begins the game inactive, meaning 1 it is only adjacent to tiles that have a gamma wormhole. 2 VELNOR Industrial Planet 0 0 3 3 Players that have the “Dark Energy Tap” technology can explore frontier tokens. When a player explores a frontier token, they discard the token and draw a card from the top of the frontier exploration deck. Inactive Active Frontier Token If a player gains control of multiple planets at the The first time a player moves or places a unit into the wormhole same time, they choose the order in which they explore those nexus or gains control of its planet (Mallice), the nexus becomes planets, drawing and resolving each planet’s exploration card active and the player flips it to its active side. The active nexus is before exploring the next planet. adjacent to tiles that have an alpha, beta, or gamma wormhole. ATTACHED CARDS HYPERLANES When a player draws an exploration card that includes the When playing with five or seven players, the galaxy is set up “Attach” header, they attach it to the explored planet’s card by with hyperlane tiles (see “Game Board Setup” on page 9). Each sliding it underneath. Then, they place the matching attachment contiguous line created by one or more hyperlane tiles is a token on that planet on the game board. That planet is modified by the exploration card’s values and ability, and the attached card hyperlane. System RtIGEiL IIle1s 2 connected by a hyperlane are adjacent 3 0 ABYZ for all purposes. remains attached if another player takes control of that planet. 20 11 RIGEL III 01 RIGEL I 11 TAR’MANN DYSON SPHERE FRIA 20 r A e T s T o A u C rc H e : v T a h l i u s e p i l s a n in e c t r ’s e ased DYSON SPHERE 21 b in y c r 2 e a a n se d d it b s y in 1 fl . uence value is r b i A n e y T 3 c s T r o 2 e A u a a 2C r n s c H e d e : d i v T t b a h sS l y i i u s En 1 e p flM. i u l s a -e n i Ln n e Oc c t e r ’s R e v a Ea s l e u d e is 12 21 11 NEW ALBION 35 Home to the Semanora, and Dyson Sphere’s heavily damaged in the Twilight Wars. 2 1 Ru r m a s d t e i - n m d g e o w s r e i a a r r t l s s a , h n m ip d a h s k a u i l n l v k g a s g i l t i e t a t s e w i r t e a t . h r e Attachment Token 2 1 13 20 STARPOINT 31 RELIC FRAGMENTS AND RELICS When a player draws an exploration card that INDUSTRIAL contains “relic fragment” in the title, they place RELIC FRAGMENT it faceup in their play area. As described on the card, three relic fragments of the same type can be Hyperlanes make the red-highlighted system purged to gain a relic, a card that has a powerful adjacent to the two yellow-highlighted systems. ACTION: Purge 3 of your industrial relic fragments to ability. When a player gains a relic, they draw a gain 1 relic. card from the top of the relic deck and place it Hyperlane tiles improve balance in the starting positions for each faceup in their play area. Relic player, so players do not receive extra trade goods for having a Fragment particular starting position. Relic fragments can be exchanged as part of a transaction. Hyperlane tiles are not systems. They cannot have units on them and they cannot be targets for effects or abilities. 11 MAP APPENDIX Players can customize their game board setup with one of the EIGHT-PLAYER SETUP following options when playing with the expansion. During the “Deal System Tiles” substep, each player is dealt three blue tiles and two red tiles. Before the “Place System PREMADE MAPS Tiles” substep, the players place the hyperlane tiles exactly as shown in the “Eight-Player Alternate Hyperlanes Setup” diagram Instead of standard game board setup, players can choose one of below, using hyperlane tiles 83B, 85B, 87A, 88A, 89B, and 90B. the premade setups from pages 13–15. LARGE GALAXY ALTERNATE HYPERLANES When playing with six players, players wishing to play with a When playing with seven or eight players, players can use the more expansive game board setup can use a four-ring galaxy alternate hyperlane setups and non-standard game board shapes that uses all of the tiles that are available in both the Twilight below to facilitate more equalized starting positions between Imperium base game and the Prophecy of Kings expansion. players. When doing so, the “Create Game Board” step of setup When doing so, the “Create Game Board” step of setup is is modified as described in this section. modified as described below. NOTE: Due to the presence of hyperlanes, the rings for these NOTE: Due to the abundance of resources and influence in the maps deviate from standard board setup. Pay attention to the “Six-Player Large Galaxy” setup, it is recommended that players non-standard shape of each ring and be sure that each ring is use the 14-space side of the victory point track when using the completely filled before placing tiles in the next ring. large galaxy setup. SEVEN-PLAYER SETUP SIX-PLAYER SETUP During the “Deal System Tiles” substep, each player is dealt three During the “Deal System Tiles” substep, each player is dealt blue tiles and two red tiles. Before the “Place System Tiles” six blue tiles and three red tiles. substep, the players place the hyperlane tiles exactly as shown in the “Seven-Player Alternate Hyperlanes Setup” diagram below, using hyperlane tiles 83B, 84B, 85B, 86B, 88B, and 90B. ALTERNATE HYPERLANES AND LARGE GALAXY SETUP Seven-Player alternate eight-Player alternate Six-Player large hyPerlaneS SetuP hyPerlaneS SetuP galaxy SetuP Mecatol rex ring 1 ring 3 hyPerlane hoMe SySteM ring 2 ring 4 12 THREE-PLAYER GALAXY SETUP FOUR-PLAYER GALAXY SETUP 13 FIVE-PLAYER GALAXY SETUP (WITH HYPERLANES) SIX-PLAYER GALAXY SETUP 14 SEVEN-PLAYER GALAXY SETUP (WITH HYPERLANES) EIGHT-PLAYER GALAXY SETUP (WITH HYPERLANES) 15 CLARIFICATIONS CREDITS This section includes clarifications about timings, interactions, EXPANSION DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT: Dane Beltrami and easily overlooked rules. If the players have a question, they ORIGINAL TWILIGHT IMPERIUM DESIGN: Christian T. Petersen should look here or consult the Living Rules Reference online. PRODUCER: Jason Walden FICTION: Sam Gregor-Stewart Anti-Fighter Barrage TECHNICAL WRITING: James Kniffen ✦ The “Anti-Fighter Barrage” step can occur even if a player’s EDITING: Adam Baker opponent has no fighters in the combat. PROOFREADING: Mark Pollard, Mark Miltenburg, Captured Fighters and Infantry and Sarah Sadler ✦ If a player captures a fighter or infantry unit, it is returned to BOARD GAME MANAGER: Chris Winebrenner-Palo its reinforcements and the capturing player places a fighter or STORY REVIEW: Daniel Lovat Clark, Matt Newman, and infantry token from the supply on their faction sheet. Sam Gregor-Stewart EXPANSION GRAPHIC DESIGN: Shaun Boyke and Toujer Dimensional Tear Tokens Moua ✦ If a space dock that has a dimensional tear token under it is GRAPHIC DESIGN MANAGER: Christopher Hosch destroyed, the dimensional tear token is removed from the COVER ART: Anders Finer board. MAP TILE ART: Stephen Somers ✦ The Nekro Virus have their own dimensional tear tokens that INTERIOR ART: Cristi Balanescu, Anders Finer, Aurore Folny, Tom Garden, Tomasz Jedruszek, Alex Kim, Scott Schomburg, they can use if they copy the Vuil’raith Cabal’s “Dimensional and Stephen Somers Tear II” unit upgrade technology card. ART DIRECTION: Jeff Lee Johnson Exploration MANAGING ART DIRECTOR: Tony Bradt ✦ A planet that does not have a type cannot be explored. SCULPTING: Kevin Van Sloun SCULPTING LEAD: Cory DeVore ✦ If an ability instructs a player to explore a frontier token, they SCULPTING MANAGER: Derrick Fuchs may do so even if they do not have the “Dark Energy Tap” technology. QUALITY ASSURANCE COORDINATION: Andrew Janeba and Zach Tewalthomas Frontier Tokens PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT: Justin Anger and Jason Glawe ✦ During setup, a frontier token is placed in each non-home VISUAL CREATIVE DIRECTOR: Brian Schomburg system that does not contain planets, including anomalies. SENIOR PROJECT MANAGER: John Franz-Wichlacz EXECUTIVE GAME DESIGNER: Nate French Gravity Rifts HEAD OF STUDIO: Chris Gerber ✦ Players apply +1 to the move values of ships for each gravity rift they move through, but must roll for each rift as well. PLAYTESTERS: Jason Aiken, Alex Antosh, Zachary Antosh, Michael Ashwood, Ethan Ator, Nic Baker, Joanna Barnett, Sam Bartos, Caleb Beckstrom, Mark Belisle, Mech Units Andrew Bomholt, Matt Bradt, JS Bragg, Paul Brown, Ben Burkholder, Stephen Calomino, Stephen Caviness, Stephen Chang, Christopher Chick, Ryan Close, Paul “Robofish” Couch, ✦ Mech unit cards are not technology cards. Andrew Croftcheck, Matthew Dahlin, Ben DiFrancesco, Hunter Donaldson, Eric Dow, Sten Drescher, Stuart Dunford, Oscar Duretto, Alexis Dykema, Aaron Ebeling, Stephen Ede, Objectives Robert Evans, BJ Forrest, Luis Francisco Hernandez, Graham Garrett, Nicholas Giranda, William Gloss, Matt Goodwin, Curran Grimshaw, Phoenix Gruber, Anshu Gupta, Chris ✦ A player can score any number of “Agenda Phase” objectives Halbower, Richard Harsanyi, Patrick Hawk, Nathanael Hitchcock, Joe Hobbs, Jon Horne, Michael Hutnan, Peter Jamieson, Victoria Jordan, Alec Keeler, Walter Kegerreis, James during a single agenda phase. Kidd, Michael Kidd, Christopher King, RJ King, Zac Kyle, Gene Lane, Josh Lewis, John Loeffler, Michael MacComb, Megan Macdonald, Mark MacKenzie, Andrew McCann, Brian ✦ The wormhole nexus and the Ghosts of Creuss’ home system Melcher, Blair Miller, Brady Miller, Joseph Miller, Joe Morse, Ian Mortensen, Will Mundy, Andrew Navaro, Edward Nickson, Regan O’Neill, Jonathan Olson, Jack Otto, Craig Parr, are on the edge of the game board for the purpose of scoring Jorgen Peddersen, Scott Penney, Christian Pereira, Nick Petersen, Matt Provisor, Karl Reiff, objectives. Joel Requier, Kyle Riffert, Linus Roberts, Bryan Robertson, Chris Rogers, E.J. Sanders, Eli Schilling, Jedaiah Schilling, Chris Schock, Dustin Shunta, Nicholas Sima, Timon Sisic, Patrick Smalley, Duncan Smith-Halverson, Matthew Spencer, David Steele II, Tasha Relics Steinman, Richie Stephan, Nathan Swenson, Zach Tedford, Katie Van Hast, Robbie Walter, ✦ Relics cannot be exchanged as part of a transaction even Tyler Welch, Scott Whittaker, Ryan Wolfe, and Jamie Wood though relic fragments can be exchanged. Special thanks to Michael Bomholt, Scott Lewis, Andrew Manderson, Matt Martens, Max Philippi, Nate Shedd, and Clayton Threadgill, whose contributions were invaluable. Wormhole Nexus And an additional thank you to all of our beta testers. ✦ If the wormhole nexus would become active after a ship moves to it during the “Movement” step of a tactical action, © 2020 Fantasy Flight Games. Gamegenic and the Gamegenic logo are TM & © Gamegenic GmbH, Germany. Fantasy Flight Games, Twilight Imperium, and the FFG logo are ® of Fantasy it does not become active until the end of that step. Flight Games. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1995 West County Road B2, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 651-639-1905. Actual components may vary from those shown. 16
