# LRR CLARIFICATION: The Nekro Virus
## TYPE: Faction Ability
### COMPONENT: Technology Singularity
#### ID: the_nekro_virus_technology_singularity

1. If the Nekro player gains a technology during a space combat, this does not prevent them from gaining technology during ground combats in theInvasionstep of the same tactical action.
2. If multiple ground combats happen on separate planets as part of a singleInvasionstep during one action, the Nekro player may gain a technology during each combat.
3. Any method that destroys a unit during combat will triggerTechnology Singularity, including an anti–fighter barrage roll, theDirect Hitaction card, the Creuss player’sDimensional Splicerfaction technology, etc.
4. This includes any method used by the Nekro player’s opponent that destroys their own units, usually as an ability cost.
5. If a unit is removed, but not destroyed, that unit will not trigger theTechnology Singularityability.
6. Space cannon and bombardment rolls happen outside of combat. Any hits produced cannot be used to trigger theTechnology Singularityability.
7. If the Nekro player chooses to gain a unit upgrade technology, that upgrade will be in effect from that point in the combat onwards.
8. The combat value of a combat dice is fixed as it is rolled, and all combat dice are rolled before any hits are assigned. Gaining a unit upgrade technology will not cause any already rolled combat dice to produce any additional hits due to an improved combat value. The same applies to unit ability dice.
9. Destroying an opponent’s unit during theAnti–Fighter Barragestep, and gaining a unit upgrade technology will allow units of that type to use the abilities and attributes of the upgrade for the combat rolls of the same round.
10. Destroying an opponent’s unit at the start of a combat, such as with the ability of theAssault Cannontechnology, and gaining a unit upgrade technology with anAnti–Fighter Barrageability will allow units of that type to use that ability during theAnti–Fighter Barragestep of the first round of combat.
11. If the Nekro player uses theDirect Hitaction card to destroy a unit when it uses itsSustain Damageability, this will occur before any units are destroyed from being assigned hits. If the Nekro player then gains a technology that gives their units theSustain Damageability, they may then use that ability for their units participating in the combat to cancel hits produced by their opponent during that round of combat.
12. Players resolve abilities in initiative order, starting from the active player, until all players decline to resolve an ability consecutively; players who declined to resolve an ability previously may choose to resolve an ability if another player does so. While every player has the opportunity to resolve an ability, it is most common for only the two players involved in the combat to do so. Say the Nekro player does not have the Dreadnought II unit upgrade. If they use theSustain Damageability of one of their dreadnoughts, then their opponent may destroy it with aDirect Hitaction card. If the Nekro player does not use theSustain Damageability (or any other ability within the same timing window), then their opponent may choose to use theSustain Damageability of one of their units (or any other ability within the same timing window). If they do not, then the timing window advances, and no more units may use theirSustain Damageabilities to cancel any of the remaining hits. If the opponent does, however, use theSustain Damageability of one of their units, the Nekro player may then destroy it with aDirect Hitaction card, if it is an eligible target. After that, the Nekro player may choose to use theSustain Damageability of one of their units, even if they had previously declined to do so; if they gained the Dreadnought II unit upgrade when they destroyed their opponent’s non–dreadnought unit with theDirect Hitaction card, then their opponent can no longer destroy the Nekro player’s with their ownDirect Hitaction card.
13. If the Nekro player destroys a unit, and gains a technology with an ability that is used during the same timing window, they may use that ability immediately.
14. For example, if the Nekro player uses the ability of theAssault Cannontechnology at the start of a space combat to destroy a unit belonging to the Creuss player, and thus place a Valefar token on that player’sDimensional Splicerfaction technology, the Nekro player may immediately use the ability of their ValefarDimensional Splicerto produce a hit against one of the Creuss player’s ships.
15. If the Nekro player gains the Infantry II unit upgrade from theirTechnology Singularityability during a combat, any of the Nekro player’s infantry destroyed at the same time as the unit used to trigger theTechnology Singularityability will be returned to their reinforcements.
16. If the Nekro player uses aDirect Hitaction card to destroy an opponent’s unit, and gain the Infantry II unit upgrade, then any infantry destroyed in thatAssign Hitsstep will roll to be placed on the Infantry II card. This will most commonly occur if the Nekro player has infantry participating in space combat via the ability of their flagship,The Alastor.
17. Any infantry destroyed by the Argent player’s Strike Wing Alpha II faction unit ability are destroyed during theRoll Dicesubstep of theAnti–Fighter Barragestep. The Nekro player will not have the opportunity to gain the Infantry II unit upgrade until theAssign Hitssubstep immediately following, and so the destroyed infantry will be returned to their reinforcements.